# Wireless Device Classification---Graduate Project
## Project Overview

This is my graduate project, which focuses on classifying different Wi-Fi transmitters using convolutional neural networks (CNNs). Please note that I am uploading this project in haste, so there may be some open questions and incomplete code snippets. I will update both this README file and the code in the coming days.

In summary, this project classifies different Wi-Fi transmitters by creating WLAN data and using this data with a CNN model.

More information about WLAN data can be found [here](https://www.mathworks.com/help/wlan/gs/what-is-wlan.html).

## Files and Structure

The project contains the following important files:

* **Dataset_Generator.m (MATLAB file)**: This script generates the WLAN dataset used for training and testing the CNN model. It is a modified version of the official MATLAB script found [here](https://www.mathworks.com/help/wlan/ug/image-transmission-reception-using-802-11-waveform-sdr.html). The script simulates various channel effects, such as TGN and AWGN, to create different types of data.

* **model_tgn.ipynb (Jupyter Notebook)**: This notebook contains the CNN model used to classify the Wi-Fi transmitters. It takes the dataset generated by Dataset_Generator.m as input.

  * **Note**: The plotting section at the end of the notebook might be a bit complicated and confusing. It is designed to plot Accuracy vs. SNR for different channel effects on a single graph.

* **mat_to_npy.py (Python script)**: A small utility script that converts MATLAB .mat files into NumPy .npy format, which is necessary since the CNN model works with NumPy arrays.

## Dataset

The dataset I used was too large to upload to this repository. However, you can find some example NumPy arrays that I have used in my dataset. I will continue to look for a way to upload the entire dataset.

## Important Notes

* **Paths**: Pay careful attention to the file paths in the scripts. You may need to modify the path variables to match your working environment.

* **Updates**: I acknowledge that this README and the code may be difficult to follow as they stand. I plan to update both with more detailed explanations and comments in the coming days. Please check back later for updates.

## Future Updates

* Improved explanations in this README file.

* Additional comments in the code to make it easier to understand.

* Further clarification of unresolved issues or questions in the project.

## External Resources

+ WLAN Overview: [What is WLAN?](https://www.mathworks.com/help/wlan/gs/what-is-wlan.html)
+ MATLAB Script Reference: [Image Transmission and Reception Using 802.11 Waveform](https://www.mathworks.com/help/wlan/ug/image-transmission-reception-using-802-11-waveform-sdr.html)

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**NOTE: Please feel free to use the dataset I have provided or generate your own using the MATLAB script. Keep in mind that creating the dataset can take a considerable amount of time.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
